we're going to talk a little bit about
evolution
so do you guys know what the word
vestigial means
how the hell do i go outside so
this is the most neat thing i've ever
posted but seriously i spend all my free
time on the internet watching youtube
and playing video games i don't have any
friends that i see in person anymore and
the ones that i have online stopped
talking i stopped talking two months ago
i want to meet new people i keep hearing
that the first step is to go out and
actually do stuff but what does that
even mean what even is there to do on my
own every time i think of going to the
beach or the library the local state
park on my own i cringe because i see
myself just awkwardly standing around
not really knowing what to do i have all
these ideas for stuff that i i think
would be fun to do with friends but i
don't have any friends and i don't like
looking
awkward around other people so i don't
want to do them by myself
i feel almost trapped inside my room
because of this even though there's
nothing physically preventing me from
getting out and it's really frustrating
living life like this on a day by day
basis i put a lot of thought into
getting a hobby or joining a sport or
something but i've always had
a hard time finding something that
interests me that isn't on a computer
i also don't want to go into a hobby
with the majority of my intentions being
to meet people because then i'll put too
much expectation on myself to make
friends and as i've learned the hard way
multiple times over that never goes well
long story short i'm at a loss here not
really sure what to do with myself
so how do i make this happen
so this is a fantastic
post and i love
how self-aware people are becoming about
their challenges okay
so let's start by sort of summarizing
you know what this person is is kind of
doing
so they've struggled they spent a lot of
time on the internet and they like
literally don't know how to go outside
like they don't know what the first step
to going outside is and as as they put
it doing stuff
so
i think there are also a couple of other
things that i want to highlight
um
i keep hearing that the first step is to
actually go out and actually do stuff uh
you know every time i think about going
to the beach i cringe
because i see myself awkwardly standing
around
i don't like looking awkward around
other people so i don't want to do them
by myself
i feel almost trapped
but there's nothing preventing me
it's really really frustrating
right and then they've also understood
about like what it's like to go out with
expectations of making friends and so
that doesn't seem to work
so
we're going to talk a little bit about
evolution
so do you guys know what the word
vestigial means
anyone know
so a vestigial
limb is something that is like no longer
necessary okay
so in evolution
we evolve things so for example snakes
actually have like
some i think most snakes actually have
legs so they have these like tiny little
legs which are i think primarily used
for essentially mating
but they have these tiny little legs
which are like tiny and small so some
people have said that for human beings
the appendix is a vestigial organ
and so the running theory that i like
about what the appendix is for
is that the appendix is a storage of
bacteria so it's basically like if you
look at your intestine your intestine is
like a loop right and it has this little
like pocket off to the side let's say
like there's just a pocket over here
that just stores a bunch of bacteria and
why is that important or why did that
used to be important so as human beings
when we used to get diarrheal illnesses
our bacteria our gut would get infected
with some kind of bacteria and we'd
flush that bacteria out and we'd flush
all the bacteria out of our system and
so then our gi tract would no longer
have much good bacteria
so
as we would get healthy again if we
weren't careful we would populate our gi
tract with the wrong kinds of bacteria
after an illness we've flushed out all
the good bacteria along with all the bad
bacteria it's like we're resetting our
gi tract so we need a place for the good
bacteria to survive so that it can
repopulate our intestine and that's what
some people hypothesize the appendix to
be which is why the appendix gets
infected so much and inflamed so much so
we have appendicitis people get
appendicitis it's quite common
and what happens is the appendix get
gets inflamed it usually has to be
surgically removed and then doctors were
like okay like this thing is clearly
like it needs to come out and then they
started removing appendices and then
well the appendix
um appendixes maybe
and then what they sort of discovered is
that like people seem to be doing fine
without it so it doesn't seem like the
appendix actually causes like losing
your appendix doesn't seem to cause any
problems so that's an example of that of
a vestigial organ maybe the appendix
does do something and i just don't
really know about it i'm not a gi
specialist
so a lot of times evolution will sort of
have vestigial parts that no longer
really serve a function
i think what's happening right now in
society is that going outside is
something that used to be so basic
and is now actually like not really
necessary i know it sounds kind of weird
but going outside to a certain degree
has started to become vestigial so if we
think about like we live in a world
where there's grocery delivery where
there's like amazon like two hour
delivery where there's like doordash and
uber eats and there's food delivery you
can get social you can socialize on
discord you can hang out on twitch you
can work online you can you know so you
can have a job online especially during
the pandemic you can have a community
online you can play video games by the
way you don't need to go to toys r us or
best buy to buy the video game anymore
because you have the internet and you
just purchase it on steam or some other
platform and you just download it
so like we have a life now where going
outside has started to become vestigial
and so this is what happens is like when
we have a life that's changing and what
we need to survive and function changes
there's also a lot of judgment with
those changes right so you see like are
these articles like i see these articles
where like you know essentially the
boomer generation is like oh kids
nowadays don't know how to change a tire
and it's like yeah that's because first
of all we don't need to go anywhere
everything comes to us and secondly like
the
prevalence of like uber and lyft makes
it so that it's actually cheaper for me
to like uber and lift around as opposed
to owning a car
right so like we live in a world now
where i don't need to own a car and if i
don't need to own a car i'm never going
to learn how to change a tire but
there's this societal expectation that
being able to change a tire makes you
like a functional human being
and so then what happens is like the
boomers are like oh kids nowadays they
don't know how to change tires they
don't know how to like build
furniture
with their hands in all manner of other
skills like they don't know like it's
like you know i'm sure 150 years ago
when people started like
buying yogurt in grocery stores there
was a group of people that were like
these noobs don't even churn their own
butter anymore it's like what the hell
like these slackers these kids nowadays
they don't know how to churn their own
butter
and it's like yeah they don't like no
one knows how to churn butter now like
when did we stop knowing how to churn
butter when it became useless like you
don't need to churn butter anymore you
don't need to change the tire and now we
get to a devastating devastating part of
our society which is that you actually
don't need to go outside
now is it healthy to go outside
absolutely are you gonna suffer if you
don't go outside absolutely
but start by doing away with the shame
right because what happens right now is
that your inability to go outside is
coming with a big side helping of shame
it's like i'll order one
one
plate of don't know how to go outside
i'll take a side of shame with it right
it's like would you like fries with that
yeah i'll take that side of shame
because society right now shames us for
being able to not being able to do
things that we think are like normal to
do which in a sense like sure it was
normal it's not like you know 10 000
years ago no one had to worry about
going outside because outside is all
there was it was like a non-issue
but going outside learning how to like
read facial expressions these are things
that are starting to become vestigial in
our society is it good i don't think so
so this is where i'm gonna be a little
bit of like a butter turner right i'm
gonna say like you should know how to
burp churn butter but let's start by
acknowledging that the like now i want
you guys to take a step back let's look
at it differently
what kind of society so this person
doesn't know how to go outside right and
we say like shame on you like how stupid
can you be but let's just think about
this i don't think we should that's not
the right approach think about what kind
of society must exist where someone can
get to the age where this person is and
not know how to go outside
just think about that what kind of
circumstances must exist for this kind
of person to to be in our society
what kind of circumstances must exist
for the term neat to even be like a
thing
it's not just like one person like 30
years ago there were no needs there was
just like every now and then there was
like a dude who was sort of like a
deadbeat right that's what you called
them there it's not a it's not a like
societal phenomenon i saw an article
recently in either the washington post
or wall street journal or something that
59.5
of people going to college or women
men are 40
of like people going to college now
right so there's a societal effect
that's going on
and so i want you all to understand that
if you're in this situation like you may
feel ashamed and like it sort of makes
sense because society may shame you but
just pause for a second and think about
what kinds of circumstances must exist
for you to evolve into the state that
you're in right now
what has to happen in our society where
being going outside becomes vestigial it
becomes a thing of the past right and
what has to happen is that you have to
be able to
get food delivered to your house
you have to be able to
entertain yourself at home you have to
be able to work from home
and all of these things exist and the
fact that there's like a global pandemic
that's sort of forcing everyone to be at
home anyway is like certainly not
helping you guys get that right this is
what's happening
so the first thing is cut yourself a
break
because it's not you're not
fundamentally messed up if you don't
know how to go outside it's such a basic
thing that i would say that the more so
for those of you who feel ashamed of not
knowing how to do basic things
okay
i want you all to understand that like
the more basic it is the less your fault
it is
because if it's something so fundamental
and you haven't learned it by now that's
actually societal it's not personal
like you can't get it's not like anyone
out there doesn't know how to speak
right like if there's someone if there's
a child out there who does not know how
to speak at the age of 10
that's not their fault you guys get that
it's like it's due to their upbringing
like it's like duh but when it comes to
some of these basic things like going
outside we don't treat it that way we
treat it with shame right we're like oh
what's wrong with kids nowadays like why
are you so stupid you don't even know
how to go outside no it's the other way
around the more basic it is
the more the less likely it is to be
your responsibility because no one
basically taught you how to go outside
or you didn't need to you never needed
to learn which is why you don't know how
to do it that's the whole point behind
evolution is evolution teaches you what
you need to learn
and there are people who will now i mean
we've had people who've been like
agoraphobic for you know decades but
this isn't agoraphobia it's now
generational it's now societal so that's
the first thing it's vestigial
so the second thing is like okay what do
you do about it right and so this is
what i'd say if you're having trouble
going outside don't
over complicate it with like all of
these different goals at the same time
finding hobbies making friends things
like that i'd say the first thing that
you should do is literally go outside so
i don't know where you live or what your
environment is like but i'd grab a book
or grab a kindle or grab your phone
right and i do it in that order so i'd
try to like get something that's not
technological
and i'd like go to a part like literally
leave your house like shower clean wear
some clean clothes
and like literally just go for a walk
like grab your book or grab a book bag
go to a library or something like go to
some public space where it's socially
acceptable for you to be alone and so
just sit on a park bench and just read
if it's a park like make sure it's not a
park where they're just kids right so
that can sometimes be creepy and get you
into trouble
but like go to a public space where it's
like acceptable to be a lone adult and
just hang out by yourself
okay i'm serious
it's unfortunate the world we live in
right it's also like i also hear stories
about people who are like the wrong skin
color like hanging out in a neighborhood
where people don't believe they belong
and like cops get called and stuff like
that
so go to like a place where it's like
socially acceptable for you to be by
yourself and be like an adult
and and just because you because this
person's already saying i'm socially
awkward so let's just acknowledge the
world for what it is let's not go down
the tangent let's accept it for what it
is and figure out how the hell to get
outside so i'd say grab something to do
or you can even grab like a journal or
something like grab a notebook if you
want to try some journaling
and then like go to a public place and
hang out there for half an hour 45
minutes and just do whatever activity
you brought
breathe in the fresh air start to
appreciate it maybe go for a walk around
your neighborhood or like if there's
some body of water like walk along the
river or like go to like a national park
or like a public park and go for a
stroll with your headphones in and
listen to some music or listen to an
audio book
that's literally where it starts don't
even don't even worry about interaction
with anyone else
so start by literally going outside
and so you want something to do because
if you feel socially awkward you need to
have something at the very beginning
to
alleviate that social awkwardness and do
something that you know is socially
acceptable bonus points if you can
actually get lost in the book so like
people are asking about dune like if you
guys haven't read dune go grab dune
you know order it off of amazon it'll
come to you in a box so you don't have
to go to a bookstore
or if you want to if you want to go like
if you want to go ham you can go to a
bookstore and purchase a book you can
say hey i'm looking for a good book to
read
right and that's like second second step
so start by literally going outside and
either going for a walk or sitting at a
park bench and doing some reading or
something like that and then come home
so do that ideally two to three times a
week and when you're ready like bump it
up a notch so then like go to a
bookstore and ask someone hey i'm
looking for something to read because
now you've been you've been reading dune
right so you're halfway through dune you
walk into a bookstore and you interact
with another human being
okay and then you're like hey i'm
looking for a good book to read halfway
through dune i really love it do you
have any recommendations and here's the
cool thing when you go into a store like
that and you ask a question like that
the person who works there like
absolutely loves it
people who work in bookstores are
usually there for a reason they're pro
possibly overworked and underpaid just
like everyone else in society but the
reason that they do it is because they
love books they love recommending books
they like reading books i
most people
right i don't know about dune two
just personally but
you know and so like that's what they're
there for like other human beings like
you're gonna it's gonna be like a fun
part of their day i can like 99
guarantee you that they'll enjoy it if
you come in and you ask for a
recommendation
and then you kind of
you know you kind of like just interact
with another human being don't even
worry about making friends or things
like that
and then the third step is like if if
you form a relationship with that person
you know so you like read the book then
you circle back and then you say like
hey
i really enjoy the book thank you for
making the recommendation i'm interested
in exploring more good books
or do you know if there are anything
like book clubs around here that i can
get involved in so you just ask like
this person at the books or you have a
little bit of relationship you ask for
what their name is you know you don't
show up every day because that's creepy
so like you actually read the book and
then you like you increase the
interaction
then when you go to the book club it's
like it's about reading right it's not
even about the social interaction it's
about reading so i like dune i like dune
too like what are these people reading
next
you do the activity at hand so for
people who are concerned about social
interaction here's the main thing i'd
say you focus on the activity the hobby
first and the social interaction second
recognize that people aren't there to
make friends and if you don't make
friends like that's not a big deal
you're there to read books
okay
and so you focus on the activity at hand
and you try to enjoy that activity at
hand and this is where the person the
person who made the post sort of pointed
out that the more i get caught up about
making friends like the more awkward i
become the more expectations there are
the harder it is it's very insightful
that's why you don't worry about making
friends
friendship is going to be an organic
like happening that that once you hang
out with people on a regular basis you
will start to make friends
so friendship making friends usually
requires a couple of different things
okay so here are like dr k's rules for
making friends number one is it requires
repeated unplanned interactions okay
so you have to just run across the same
people over and over and over again
that's why it's like easier to make
friends in school because i show up in
class and you show up in class and i see
you it's not like i you know we're both
there for class
the second thing is not actually common
interests so that's not bizarrely an
important part of friendship in my
opinion the next thing is common cause
so you have to have like a shared goal
that you can sort of unite around so in
a class for example it's like you you
the person sitting next to you you sit
in a particular seat where you're
creatures of habit next to you the same
person sits there every day you see this
person like every day in class and
you're like hey my name is so-and-so
what's your name okay cool
and then like one day you miss class
and then you're like hey man do you have
like notes from yesterday and the dude
is like sure and then you get the notes
and then you all are like you're good
then when a test is coming up it's like
hey dude thanks for the notes i really
appreciate it you want to like get
together or study for the test
and the person is like sure or they'll
say no and it's like no big deal because
it's not about making friends it's about
studying for the test
and if you do that
enough times and you sort of show up in
places and you focus on the activity the
friendship will come naturally
right
and so yeah this is when people say skip
class on purpose case in point
right so this is where a society is now
we have a society where like you can
afford to skip class i went to medical
school and all of our lectures were
taped or recorded not taped because
that's you know
back in the 60s
our lectures were recorded and uploaded
and you could watch them at home if you
wanted to so i had some students that
like i had one student who lived in a
different state and would commute four
hours to come to school like on during
required things and then he was like
in his different state and just like
watching videos
right so there are people who don't go
to class so now we wonder like oh why
aren't people why don't people have
social skills because we don't need them
anymore
you guys get that
so do await the shame give your cut
yourself a little bit of slack recognize
that first of all if you don't know how
to go outside like that's not a you
problem
it's like a you plus society problem
right do you have a hand in that could
you have been a little bit more social
when you were 14 sure could you been a
little bit more social when you were 17
sure
so you do have some agency in that but
it's not like you're just a reject human
being it's just society hasn't needed
you to go outside so you didn't really
learn
and then start by like literally going
outside having some solo acceptable
activity and going to a neutral place
where it's not awkward for you to be
there and just do your thing
go for a walk with headphones on you
know like listen to some music listen to
a podcast and like you can listen to a
podcast at home
you know like even if you watch youtube
videos i don't know if you guys do this
but sometimes i'll listen to youtube
like i'll just have youtube on while i'm
like driving in the car if i'm like
listening to a video essay you don't
even need the visuals
and then interact with someone and then
like maybe like go for an activity and
like you'll get there slowly but surely
right when you're going on a walk like i
think the the
bro nod is something i'm a huge fan of
right like you're walking by someone
this is something that i don't do this
with women i do it with men it's the bro
nod right you just give them the nod
it's like i see you and i salute you and
i respect you it's like it's my favorite
social activity the bronx is like my
favorite thing to do
like there's this like old dude like
some like 75 year old like dude who like
we go for a walk at the same time so the
dude is like old and unretired it is
retired i'm sure he's like this old i
think he's a vietnamese guy
he's like an old vietnamese dude who's
like you know
wandering around my neighborhood
and then like i also wander around the
neighborhood at like 11 o'clock during
the day so before i stream i go for a
walk to clear my head and i like i
i feel like my best friend in the
neighborhood is a 75 year old vietnamese
man
and we just see each other we not do
each other every day that's the extent
of our interaction
you know and i think if i grow something
i'll if i see him i'll i'll bring him
something that i grow from my garden
because i think he's got a garden too so
we're going to be like gardening bros
and it's going to be like easy
you know it doesn't have to be anything
more than that
i don't even i don't think he speaks
english so i don't even think we can
really interact much but we don't need
to it's just we're just gonna hang it's
gonna be great
right
yeah
so that's how you go outside
cut yourself some slack
if you don't know how to go outside it's
not entirely your fault
you